[API-1528] rate limiting documentation (#171)
cobalthq/cobalt-api-docs: versions/v2/content/rate-limits.md

---
weight: 15
title: Rate Limits
---

# Rate Limits

> The Cobalt API sets rate limits API requests to manage request volume and maintain system availability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cobalt API sets rate limits on API requests to manage request volume and maintain system availability.
```

Reviewer: This was a typo in my previous suggestion.

- Rate limiting follows a **fixed-window policy**, with a maximum number of requests allowed in a specific
time window.
- Rate limiting applies on a **per-user basis**, regardless of how many API tokens the user has.

## Rate Limits

| Request Type    | HTTP Verbs                       | Limit | Window     | HTTP Response Headers                                    |
|-----------------|----------------------------------|-------|------------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| Get requests    | `GET`                            | 100   | 60 seconds | `X-Rate-Limit-Get-Limit` and  `X-Rate-Limit-Remaining`   |
| Mutate requests | `POST`, `PATCH`, `PUT`, `DELETE` | 20    | 60 seconds | `X-Rate-Limit-Mutate-Limit` and `X-Rate-Limit-Remaining` |

## HTTP Response Headers

- `X-Rate-Limit-Get-Limit`: Indicates the maximum number of `GET` requests allowed per time window.
Example: `X-Rate-Limit-Get-Limit: 100`
- `X-Rate-Limit-Mutate-Limit`: Indicates the maximum number of Mutate requests allowed per time window.
Example: `X-Rate-Limit-Mutate-Limit: 20`

> - `X-Rate-Limit-Remaining`: Indicates the number of requests remaining in the time window

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `X-Rate-Limit-Remaining`: Indicates the number of requests remaining in the time window.
```

---
weight: 15
title: Rate Limits
---

# Rate Limits

The Cobalt API sets rate limits API requests to manage request volume and maintain system availability.

> Here are some details on the rate limit policy that Cobalt API implements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
weight: 15
title: Rate Limits
---

# Rate Limits

> Cobalt API provides rate limiting on API requests to manage request volume and provide a reliable and available API.

Reviewer 2: `Cobalt API provides rate limiting`. This is pitching it like it's a feature. More succinct:
`Cobalt API rate limits API requests ...`

> Cobalt API provides rate limiting on API requests to manage request volume and provide a reliable and available API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cobalt API sets rate limits on API requests to manage request volume and maintain system stability.
```

Here are some details on the rate limit policy that Cobalt API implements:

- Rate limiting follows a **Fixed-Window policy** where there is a maximum amount of requests allowed in a specific
window of time.

> - Rate limiting is applied on a **per-user basis**, regardless of how many API tokens the user owns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Rate limiting applies on a **per-user basis**, regardless of how many API tokens the user has.
```

## Rate Limits

> | Request Type    | HTTP Verb                     | Limit | Window     | HTTP Response Headers                                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Request Type    | HTTP Verbs                     | Limit | Window     | HTTP Response Headers                                   |
```

|-----------------|-------------------------------|-------|------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| Get Requests    | `GET`                         | 100   | 60 seconds | `X-Rate-Limit-Get-Limit` and  `X-Rate-Limit-Remaining`  |
| Mutate Requests | `POST` `PATCH` `PUT` `DELETE` | 20    | 60 seconds | `X-Rate-Limit-Mutate-Limit`and `X-Rate-Limit-Remaining` |

## HTTP Response Headers

> - `X-Rate-Limit-Get-Limit`: indicates the maximum rate allowed for `GET` requests.

Reviewer 2: Maybe:
`indicates the maximum number of GET requests allowed per minute.`
?

> - `X-Rate-Limit-Get-Limit`: indicates the maximum rate allowed for `GET` requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `X-Rate-Limit-Get-Limit`: Indicates the maximum number of `GET` requests allowed per minute.
```

Example: `X-Rate-Limit-Get-Limit: 100`

> - `X-Rate-Limit-Mutate-Limit`: indicates the maximum rate allowed for Mutate requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `X-Rate-Limit-Mutate-Limit`: Indicates the maximum number of Mutate requests allowed per minute.
```

Example: `X-Rate-Limit-Mutate-Limit: 20`

> - `X-Rate-Limit-Remaining`: indicates the number of requests left in the window of time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `X-Rate-Limit-Remaining`: Indicates the number of allowed requests remaining in the time window.
```

Example: `X-Rate-Limit-Remaining: 93`

## When Rate Limit is Exceeded

When a user exceeds the rate limit, the API will return HTTP `509 BANDWIDTH_LIMIT_EXCEEDED` response code and message

> along with the headers above. The user will have to wait no more than the window of time above in order for the

Reviewer 2: `The user will have to wait no more than the window of time above`
Can we say this more succinctly?
